Restructure import/export section and add grid layout and community package migrator documentation (#6285)
umbraco/UmbracoDocs: 14/umbraco-deploy/deployment-workflow/import-export-v7.md

---
meta.Title: Migrating from Umbraco 7
description: How to export content and schema from Umbraco 7 and import into a newer version
---

### Migrating from Umbraco 7

> The import and export feature is available for Umbraco Deploy supporting Umbraco 8 and above. It's not been ported back to Umbraco 7, hence you can't trigger an export from there in the same way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The import and export features are available for Umbraco Deploy supporting Umbraco 8 and above. It's not been ported back to Umbraco 7, hence you cannot trigger an export from there in the same way.
```

> We can however use this feature to help migrate from Umbraco 7 to a supported major version. It requires additional logic added to the Deploy Contrib project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can use this feature to help migrate from Umbraco 7 to a supported major version. However, it requires additional logic to be added to the Deploy Contrib project.
```

            Constants.UdiEntityType.Macro,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.DictionaryItem,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Template,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Language,
            // Include all related files
            Constants.UdiEntityType.MediaFile,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.MacroScript,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.PartialView,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.PartialViewMacro,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Script,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Stylesheet,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.UserControl,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.TemplateFile,
            Constants.UdiEntityType.Xslt
        };

        // Create export
        var zipArchiveFilePath = HostingEnvironment.MapPath("~/data/" + "export-" + Guid.NewGuid() + ".zip");
        ArtifactExportService.ExportArtifacts(udis, Constants.DeploySelector.ThisAndDescendants, zipArchiveFilePath, dependencyEntityTypes);
    }
}
```

</details>

#### Importing Umbraco 7 content and schema

To import this archive into a newer Umbraco project, you need to install either of these packages:

- `UmbracoDeploy.Contrib` 4.3 for Umbraco 8

> - `Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib` for Umbraco 10.2, 12.1, 13.1 or later
> Then you need to configure the legacy artifact type resolver and migratory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib` for Umbraco 10.2, 12.1, 13.1 or later

Then you need to configure the legacy artifact type resolver and migratory.
```

Artifact type resolvers allow resolving changes in the type that's stored in the `__type` JSON property of the artifact. This is in case it moved to a different assembly or namespace (or got renamed) in a newer version. The legacy migrators handle the following changes:

- Moving the pre-values of data types to the configuration property;

> - Moving the invariant release and expire dates of content to the (culture variant) schedule property;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Moving the invariant release and expiration dates of content to the (culture variant) schedule property;
```

  - `Umbraco.DropDownMultiple` to `Umbraco.DropDownListFlexible` (pre-values to value list, defaults to multiple item select)
  - `Umbraco.MediaPicker2` to `Umbraco.MediaPicker` (removes invalid start node ID, defaults to single item select)
  - `Umbraco.MediaPicker` (removes invalid start node ID)
  - `Umbraco.MemberPicker2` to `Umbraco.MemberPicker`
  - `Umbraco.MultiNodeTreePicker2` to `Umbraco.MultiNodeTreePicker` (removes invalid start node ID)
  - `Umbraco.MultiNodeTreePicker` (removes invalid start node ID)
  - `Umbraco.MultipleMediaPicker` to `Umbraco.MediaPicker` (removes invalid start node ID, defaults to multiple item select)
    - `Umbraco.NoEdit` to `Umbraco.Label`
  - `Umbraco.RadioButtonList` (pre-values to value list, change database type from integer to nvarchar)
  - `Umbraco.RelatedLinks2` to `Umbraco.MultiUrlPicker`
  - `Umbraco.RelatedLinks` to `Umbraco.MultiUrlPicker`
  - `Umbraco.Textbox` to `Umbraco.TextBox`
  - `Umbraco.TextboxMultiple` to `Umbraco.TextArea`
  - `Umbraco.TinyMCEv3` to `Umbraco.TinyMCE`
- Migrating pre-value property values for:
  - `Umbraco.CheckBoxList`
  - `Umbraco.DropDown.Flexible`
  - `Umbraco.RadioButtonList`

> The following composer adds the required legacy artifact type resolver and migrators. It also adds a custom resolver that marks the specified Document Type alias `testElement` as element type. Element types are a concept added in Umbraco 8 and are required for document types that are used in Nested Content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following composer adds the required legacy artifact type resolver and migrators. It also adds a custom resolver that marks the specified Document Type alias `testElement` as the element type. Element types are a concept added in Umbraco 8 and are required for Document Types that are used in Nested Content.
```

<details>
<summary><code>LegacyImportComposer.cs</code> (configure artifact type resolver and artifact migrators)</summary>

```csharp
using Umbraco.Cms.Core.Composing;
using Umbraco.Deploy.Contrib.Migrators.Legacy;

internal class LegacyImportComposer : IComposer
{
    public void Compose(IUmbracoBuilder builder)
    {
        builder.DeployArtifactTypeResolvers()
            .AddLegacyTypeResolver();

        builder.DeployArtifactMigrators()
            .AddLegacyMigrators()
            .Append<ElementTypeArtifactMigrator>();
    }

    private class ElementTypeArtifactMigrator : ElementTypeArtifactMigratorBase
    {
        public ElementTypeArtifactMigrator()
            : base("testElement")
        { }
    }
}
```

</details>

{% hint style="info" %}

> It is recommended to first only import schema and schema files (by deselecting 'Content' and 'Content files' in the dialog). You can follow that by a complete import of all content and schema. The order in which the artifacts are imported depends on the dependencies between them. By importing schema first we ensure the schema is updated before any content is processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to start by importing only the schema and schema files (by deselecting 'Content' and 'Content files' in the dialog). Then, you can proceed with importing all content and schema together. The order in which the artifacts are imported depends on their dependencies. By importing the schema first, we ensure that the schema is updated before any content is processed.
```
